I definetly started by using Arduino to read the analog data but as Neil had previously mentioned its not something that has to be put up on the page, so as a starting point I used my board that I designed previously by attaching various sensors to it (This might not 
very neat). I used Arduino IDE as a platform to for reading the analog data. 

1. The arduino measures how much time the capacitor (i.e the touch sensor) takes to charge, giving it an estimate of the capacitance. 
2. The sensor plate and your body forms a capacitor. We know that a capacitor stores charge. The more its capacitance, the more charge   it can store.
3. As the foil builds up electrical charge, the Arduino will measure how long it takes for pin 2(sense) to have the same state as pin   4.(send)
4. When your hand is close to the sensor, your skin will absorb some charge, making the characteristic charging time time longer!  
Step response:
5. We are changing capacitance by touch and by proximity, these are two very different ways. This is attributed to the fact that we act as a dielectric medium and it is directly proportional to the capacitance. The electric field generated by the capacitor is "intruded" by the finger. This happpens in a way that, our body has a diectric constant of 80. The dielectric medium between two plates of the capicitor now has a intruder(our hand) that increases the capacitance, hence it can hold more charge and might take some more time to charge. 
6. The second way we are changing capacitance is that our finger(as a conductor) along with the plate acts a capacitor. Since the 
capacitance is inversely proportional to the distance, it increases as the finger gets closer to the plate. 


1. Research has shown that a small capacitor (100 pF) or so from sensor(receive) pin to ground improves stability and repeatability. 


Resistor Choice:

Here are some guidelines for resistors but be sure to experiment for a desired response.

    Use a 1 megohm resistor (or less maybe) for absolute touch to activate. (This acts as a touch sensor)
    With a 10 megohm resistor the sensor will start to respond 4-6 inches away.( This acts as a prxoimity sensor)
    With a 40 megohm resistor the sensor will start to respond 12-24 inches away (dependent on the foil size). Common resistor sizes usually end at 10 megohm so you may have to solder four 10 megohm resistors end to end.
    One tradeoff with larger resistors is that the sensor's increased sensitivity means that it is slower. Also if the sensor is exposed metal, it is possible that the send pin will never be able to force a change in the receive (sensor) pin, and the sensor will timeout.
    Also experiment with small capacitors (100 pF - .01 uF) to ground, on the sense pin. They improve stability of the sensor. 

Note that the hardware can be set up with one sensor Pin and several resistors and rPin's for calls to various capacitive sensors. See the example sketch. 


IN Tx-Rx version, we are measuring the signal between the two eletrodes